Good morning everyone.
Glad to see we've packed
the house at 9 a.m.
on Friday morning after the party.
I hope you all had a great time.
All right.
My name is Dave Payne.
I'm the manager of the
Analysis Tools team,
so that's debugging and
performance analysis tools.
In the session this morning,
we're going to look at some new
ways to try to understand the
behavior of your applications.
We'll take a look at reviewing
Instruments and DTrace,
look at how to trace functions
and methods in your application,
how to build custom
Instruments with DTrace,
and how to build static probes with
DTrace and use those static probes.
So this session is relevant for pretty
much everyone at the conference.
Mac developers where we introduced
Instruments and DTrace in Leopard.
For iPhone developers,
you can use Instruments with either the
iPhone simulator or on the iPhone itself.
DTrace is available for your
iPhone applications when you're
running in the iPhone simulator
because they're really effectively
a Mac application at that point.
And Information Technologies people
can use Instruments to analyze your
entire system and see what's going on,
for example, on a server.
So as a recap,
Instruments is a great way to visualize
the behavior and performance of your
application or your entire system.
It allows you to collect multiple
types of event data simultaneously in
different tracks and then filter that
data down and sort it in different
ways to really do data mining and hone
in to find the problems you're having.
This lets you turn your classical edit,
build, debug cycle into edit, build,
debug, analyze, performance tune,
so streamline that entire cycle.
Instruments comes with quite a
variety of built-in instrumentation
that's very powerful.
Much of this is based on the
Leopard frameworks like the
ObjectAlloc and Leaks instruments,
CPU Sampler.
And then we have a number of built-in
instruments that are based on DTrace.
[Transcript missing]
So let me do a virtual demo and show
you how that works in action here.
So I go into a terminal window and
I can use the sudo dtrace-l command
to list all the probes in the system.
We had about 25,000 of them on Leopard.
When we tried it
recently on Snow Leopard,
we had over 60,000.
And a lot of them are duplicated probes
from static probes in the framework that
appear in multiple different processes.
But you can see here that,
so this is a listing of all the
built-in probes that are available.
They're a bunch of different providers
in a variety of different modules,
different functions, and different names.
So I've written a simple little
script here called syscalldemo.d.
So the probe descriptor here is
saying I want to use the syscall
provider to watch system calls,
and specifically the open system call.
I want to trap on the
entry of open system call.
And I'm using a predicate on this
to say I'm really only interested
in it if the executable name is
calculator when this probe fires.
Then I have a couple
of action statements.
One to do a printf line to
say what app opened what file.
So in this case I use, again,
exec name as a built-in variable.
It's always going to be calculator in
this example because of the predicate.
Then I can use arg0,
which is the file name argument to open.
Now because the probe is
firing in kernel space,
it doesn't directly have
access to the file name there.
All it gets is the pointer.
But it can use a DTrace function called
copy in string to reach out into user
space and copy that C string into the
kernel for recording with this event.
I'm also using the uStack50 call to
say I want to see the first 50 frames
of the stack when this event fires.
So let me go ahead and
execute this script.
So I do a sudo DTrace-S to
say this particular script.
We see that it matches one probe.
I flip over to Calculator,
change the window size a couple of times,
and we've seen that it
fired a couple of events.
Flip back over to Terminal,
scroll up to the top,
and we can see that we get
the printf line at the top.
Calculator opened a
global preference file,
and then down below /dev/autoFS/nowait,
and we see the backtrace of
where these events occurred.
So you can do this on the command line.
You can write any scripts
that you need to write there.
So we've referred to DTrace providers.
I like to think of the providers
as being in three categories:
system-wide providers,
per-process providers,
and user-land static probes.
[Transcript missing]
So let's take a look at how you'd
use this to build custom instruments.
So first off,
why would you want to do that?
Well, you know your own code.
We can't imagine all the problems that
you're going to want to solve because
they're particular to your domain.
And you can also tailor instruments
for different types of tasks,
such as bug hunting, assertion checking,
regression testing.
You could use the UI recorder
instruments with custom instruments
that you've written to execute your
application time and time again.
Say each time you modify your code,
you could rerun a UI recording and make
sure that you get similar results from
your custom instruments to make sure
that you haven't broken your program.
Or you could do network administration
tools in your environment.
Again, very similar to DTrace itself.
You can pose and answer
arbitrary questions in this way.
So for example, assertion checking.
A lot of times you'll use
something like NSAssert to check
input parameters to functions.
Most people compile these out
of their production release.
But with DTrace,
you could put probes on functions
that you could turn on at runtime,
gather the input, and check those sort of
externally from your program.
You can also use the DTrace
actions and its other mechanisms to
maintain state of what's going on.
So you can do broader
levels of validity checking.
You know,
if function A got these arguments,
then function B should have this.
To build a new DTrace instrument,
you use the Build New Instrument
or Trace Symbol menu items
from the Instrument menu.
You can also edit an existing
DTrace instrument by using
the Edit Instrument menu item.
Or if you have an instrument
in a trace document,
you can just double-click on it to
bring up the instrument builder.
So for example,
the easiest way to leverage the
flexibility of DTrace is Trace Symbol.
You just enter in a function
name that you want to trace,
such as fprintf or nslog,
or an Objective-C method name.
In this case,
Instrument Builder knows about
Objective-C and it converts the colons in
your method names to asterisks for you.
When you're using the Trace Symbol,
you can also use
wildcards in class names.
So you could say, for example,
I want to trace all my set methods,
which would include those for access
or set methods on properties that get
generated by the compiler for you.
Or you could trace a method
on multiple different classes.
When you bring up the Instrument Builder,
it comes down as a sheet
on your trace document.
There's multiple different categories,
areas in the Instrument Builder sheet.
The top area is a way to communicate
to instruments how this instrument
should appear in the library.
So it lets you specify
a human-readable name,
a category in the instrument's
library to put it in,
and a human-readable description,
which gets looked at when you type
into the filter field of the library.
There's a data field in case you need
to declare any variables for this,
and a lot of times you won't need to
because DTrace doesn't require it.
If you need to initialize
any variable values,
you can do it in the begin field.
And then the heart of the Instrument
Builder is the probe clause.
So there's three different
sections of this.
One is the probe condition
where you specify the probe
itself and any predicates.
And then the probe condition
where you specify the probe
itself and any predicates.
So in this case,
we're using the profile provider
to fire at one-second intervals.
And you can see there's
a pop-up for what type,
which is the provider.
Then there's the action
portion of your script.
And finally,
something custom for Instruments is
what data do we want to record to have
it appear in the detail view for this
instrument or be shown in the track view.
And finally, there's an end section,
which a lot of times you won't need to
use with instruments that you build here.
Once you've created your new instrument,
you can just hit the
Save button and it gets saved.
If you are editing an
existing instrument,
then we say, well, okay,
we want to be safe here by default
and not trash your old instrument or
the data that is recorded with it.
So the default is to save a copy.
But you'll note that we
have a checkbox on the left,
and this is new to Xcode 3.1,
that says preserve previous
instruments and recorded data.
So when we're doing a save copy,
that checkbox is checked.
But if you uncheck that,
that lets you experiment with one
instrument and do an iterative,
edit the instrument, save it, try it,
edit again, save it, try it,
until you get an instrument
that you're happy with.
So rather than getting six
instruments created out of that,
you can just edit one.
So that's really convenient.
I like it too.
So now we'd like to take a
case study of exploring our
poor little baffle application.
So I'd like to call up my colleague,
Chad Woolf.
Thank you, Dave.
Yeah, we're going to take a look at the
Baffle Cocoa application again.
That's the Mr.
Bill application of WWDC 2008.
So, Dave has shown you how we can create
custom instruments using DTrace.
So let's look at an example.
So our Baffle Koku
application is up there.
And on a Friday we get an email saying,
OK, we've added a new feature.
This new feature allows you to flip
back and forth through the list of words
that you've gotten in various games.
And so please update your sources.
And so I did.
Merged it with my code,
took a look at it.
So I started a new game, finished it,
got three words,
and I go to the back button.
But when I click it,
I notice that the word list
is kind of bizarre looking.
That's not really what I remembered.
So what I'm looking at here is it looks
like a list of the same number of words.
The score is correct.
Then the number of letters in
each word seem to be matching.
But the letters themselves
are a little scrambled.
So let's take a look at what we
know about the BaffleCoco app.
It has a word list on the right and
the pieces on the board on the left.
Now, the word list on the right,
each word is represented
by a BG Baffle word object.
And the pieces on the board
are represented by the
BG Baffle piece object.
Now what's interesting is the BG Baffle
word actually refers or is composed of
pieces so that when you execute its get
me your string representation there,
it iterates through that array of pieces
and constructs you string dynamically.
So that's potentially pretty suspect.
But without jumping to any conclusions,
we definitely want to look at
both possibilities and that is
maybe the word is being changed.
So I copy the word into the history
list and then maybe something's
inserting pieces or removing pieces.
Those are the two methods that
we have for changing a word.
Or the other possibility,
which seems a little bit more
likely based on what we've seen,
is that the pieces
themselves are changing.
And this can happen potentially
if we didn't do a deep copy.
We copied the words,
but we didn't also copy the pieces,
and maybe they're being
referred to the same,
or maybe the words are referring to the
same pieces that are still on the board.
So I'm going to hop into Instruments over
here with our running baffle application.
Now without, without,
now see I'll show you how it's
exhibiting the problem here.
Okay, that's obviously trash
but the score is valid.
And without taking it down,
I'm going to call up Instruments.
Sometimes when you're
debugging something,
you don't want to take it down,
so attaching to it through
Instruments is a great idea.
Starting from a blank template,
I'm going to go to Instrument,
and I'm going to say Trace Symbol.
The first thing we wanted to
look at was our Word class,
and we wanted to see if our Word class
was being modified before or after it
was being copied into the old list.
So I type in bgbaffleword
with an asterisk,
so I'm going to trace all
methods being sent on all
objects of the baffle word class.
Instruments creates for us a
custom instrument here in DTrace.
Let's take a quick look at that.
So when you say trace a symbol,
you'll see that it creates
two probes for you,
an entry and a return.
You'll see that the provider
is the Objective-C provider,
the class is the baffle word,
and the method here is the asterisk,
meaning we want to trace them all.
Upon entry,
we save off the start time and the
object ID pointer here in our action.
And on the return from the method,
we will be sending some information
to Instruments down here.
And that's the self pointer
that recorded during the entry
and the duration of the call,
which is the current timestamp minus
the time that the return probe fired.
Now what we are going to be missing here,
and I want to add,
is because we're wildcarding this,
we don't know which
method is actually firing.
So we want to send that piece
of information to Instruments
as well for recording.
So I'll go down to here to
record the following data.
Say record in Instruments,
and then choose from the
list of options here,
the function.
Now in the Objective-C provider,
the module is the class,
the method is the function,
and the name is either entry or return.
So function is definitely
what we want there,
and we'll save that.
So let's target our running
baffle Cocoa process.
And we'll record the trace.
Go back.
Now I'm going to run through
a game here real quickly so
you can see some trace data.
Unfortunately, I'm not very good at this,
but I've got a paycheck riding on it.
Okay, that should be enough.
Now we go back here,
we'll stop the trace,
we'll take a look at what we got.
So you see we have the caller,
which is the call site,
which is where the methods
were being invoked.
We have the actual method,
which is what I set up, the self pointer,
and the duration.
Now this is a lot of data.
You can go through it
with some filtering.
And you can also go into the
extended detail view to see
a nice image of the stack.
Click through here.
What we're looking for in our word
is we want to see if the insert or
remove methods are being called,
specifically the insert,
after we've made a copy.
So let's go and we'll filter
down to insert object in pieces.
Okay, we see a bunch of hits there.
And we see the last hit is at sample 502.
So keep that in mind,
because now we're going
to look for the copies.
So we look with copy with zone.
We see it happening in
a few different places,
here and here.
Now the last one's at 5.03,
so that's a good indication that we
haven't actually modified any words
after we made the copies of those words.
So that's not likely to be the problem.
So let me close our trace document and
we'll take a look at our other guess.
And our other guess was
that when we go back here,
the words themselves are
actually being changed because
the pieces are being changed.
So in order to look at that,
what we really want to do is
you want to see if a piece
has been added into a word.
And if that piece has been added into a
word and then somehow that piece changes,
you want that flag.
Pieces, of course,
can change because you get to shake
the board as much as you want.
But if those pieces are
actually part of an existing
word somewhere in the document,
you definitely want to
have that flag instead.
So I created an instrument
ahead of time here.
So we're going to call
up Instruments again.
I'll go to my Word Corruption
Check instrument,
and we'll take a look
at how I built that.
So using associative
arrays inside DTrace,
what we can do is on the entry
to the insert object in pieces,
we can take that piece object that
was being passed into our word,
and we can record it in a
global associative array.
So now we know that, okay,
this piece object ID is now
being used in a word somewhere,
so let's increment a counter,
and that's here in our used
in words global variable.
So we can see that we have
a function where arg2 is the
first argument to the function,
which is actually object
being inserted into the word.
And we'll just pass some
information there for tracing
saying that we're tracking a piece.
And then for completeness,
we'll go down to Remove Object from
Pieces in case the user backtracks.
We don't want that piece to be wrongly
flagged as being part of a word,
so we'll just say that
we're dropping the piece.
We'll go into our Used in Words global
and remove our reference count there.
And then finally, those, by the way,
those methods are being set
inside the baffle word class.
It might have been obvious,
but I figure I might repeat that.
But the,
now the new probe that I want to put
in here is in the actual piece itself,
because I want to track any
time a method that starts with
set is being called on a piece.
But the predicate suggests that it should
only fire if the used in words contains
that guy and the count is not zero.
So if a piece is being referenced,
that will show up as a non-zero
number and this probe will fire.
So let's take a look at that and
see if the problem is actually
changing pieces inside of a word.
So we'll attach to our
baffle_coco process again,
hit record.
I'll run over to our baffle process,
we'll start a new game.
Can I buy a vowel?
Okay, here we go.
Okay, now let's take a look at what
we recorded in Instruments.
You'll see that the string
I recorded for what I'm doing here,
my event string, tracking pieces,
is getting recorded.
We're seeing inserts firing.
We're seeing the object ID of the piece.
But we're not seeing our message.
So maybe that is actually
happening when we shake.
Let's take a look at that.
See now there's where
that probe is firing.
And you'll notice the set methods
being called are set visible letter.
So that does indeed
seem to be the problem.
So let's go back to our code here,
see if we can find that problem.
Now I was saying that I had
merged some changes in when
they had added their feature,
and my features that I added had to be,
were actually related to that.
But I realize now that, okay,
when we do make the copy,
we do need a deep copy on this.
So let me go back into Word.
Baffle Word Class.
We'll go to our copy
with zone method here.
We see that yes, I'm adding the piece
to the array directly.
That's probably not a great idea.
So let's make a copy of the piece.
[Transcript missing]
All right, now we're going to hit record
again on this new process.
This is a neat feature in
Instruments is that it will look
for a process of the same name.
Since the other one I quit, it'll say,
oh, OK, here's one.
Is this the one you want?
It's a new process ID.
Say, sure.
So now let's go and
test that theory again,
now that we've fixed it.
And again, we don't really need to create
any sort of real words here.
We just need to get to
the end of the game.
Watch the sands run out.
Okay, now we can shake it up again.
And let's see if we have the problem.
We see tracking piece,
and then we see dropping piece,
but we don't actually see the
error that we had seen before.
So it looks like we fixed it.
Now, with that in mind,
you can do a lot of really advanced
tracing here with assertion checking
and building custom instruments to
look at the behavior in your code,
especially if you're doing a
lot of programming by contract.
Say you're looking at a delegate
and you want to make sure that the
delegate's D-alloc is never called
before you've set the delegate to nil.
That's an example.
And all this stuff really
works great on the Mac,
but unfortunately the D-Trace facility
does not exist on the iPhone itself.
However,
this does work in the iPhone simulator.
So let me quickly show you how you can
launch the touch version of our app.
And that will start it up
inside the iPhone simulator.
I'm going to run through
that one more time.
Now,
the Cocoa version and the Touch version
share a similar code base.
And you can see the probes firing.
Now I hadn't made the
change to the touch version,
so we should still see the error.
Okay, create a new game and shake.
Go back here to Instruments,
and we see that our probe with
the referenced piece modified
is actually still firing even
inside of an app in the simulator.
So that's the end of the demo for this.
I'd like to call Dave back up
here to talk about UserLance
Static Probes and DTrace.
Okay, very good.
Thanks, Chad.
So this is really nice being able
to just put probes on functions
and methods in your code,
but what if we actually
want to add instrumentation
directly into your source code?
How can we do that?
So we're going to talk
about DTrace static probes.
We'll look at what are static probes.
We'll talk about some places that
we've added static probes inside
of Apple's frameworks so that
you can gain benefit from that.
We'll show how to add static
probes to your own code and
then to use those static probes.
So what are static probes?
Well, these are you want to come up with
semantically meaningful probe points that
you would put in your user space code.
You don't want to just have
them necessarily be the same
names as your functions.
You want to decide what your operations
are that you're trying to trace and have
probes that are named based on that.
This way, if you change the function,
you're going to have
a name based on that.
So if you change the function names,
then the probe names are still nice
and stable and your scripts and
instruments will continue to work.
Static probes give you a great
way to do tracing and logging.
We like to think of it as any
place that you might have put
an NS log statement or a printf.
You could use static probes that
you could dynamically enable
if you need them at runtime.
Again, if they're not in use,
they're zero cost.
Static probes will provide us a way
that we can record Objective-C object
descriptions as probe arguments,
and we'll look at that.
You can focus on just
one process with these,
or if you're putting them into a library,
you could look with an instrument at
all the processes that use this probe.
For example, we have probes in Core Data.
If you wanted to look at the begin
fetch operation on all processes,
you could use Core Data star
colon colon colon begin fetch.
The star, again,
this includes the process
ID and the provider name here.
So, static probes in Apple's frameworks.
We saw the pseudo DTrace-L in
my earlier virtual demo.
You could grep for a specific
process ID and see what static
probes are in that process from this.
So, for example,
if you do this on Safari,
you'll see core data probes in that.
With Leopard,
we had static probes that we had
implemented for what's called the
standard DTrace P-Lock stat provider.
So, this is P-threads information
here looking at locking behavior.
We have probes on core data.
Spotlight provides
probes in the MDS daemon.
And we had static probes
on the scripting languages.
Ruby, Python, and Perl.
So, you can see what's going on in those.
For Snow Leopard,
we're investigating static probes
in more places in the system,
including Grand Central Dispatch,
as Leanne showed in her demos
in the Instruments session.
and Dan Pettit are the team members.
They'll be working with us
on the application and system
development side of things.
They'll be working with us on
the application side of things.
So looking at the
Core Data static probes,
we can see a pattern here that there's
a begin and end probe for a number
of different operations in Core Data,
such as faulting,
faulting with cache misses,
relationship faulting,
relationship faulting with cache misses,
fetching, and saving.
And it's recording the relevant
arguments in each case.
So you could actually write a
fairly simple DTrace script that
would actually capture all of the
information for what's going on with
Core Data in your entire process with
just a few printf statements here.
But we've actually made
these core data probes a bit
easier to use in Instruments.
We've got custom Instruments already
built into the Instruments library here,
so several different types
of core data instruments.
So, if you want to write static
probes for your own applications,
what do you want to think about?
Well, you want to identify what are the
interesting operations you want to trace.
A lot of times you'll have, for example,
fairly expensive things or things
that take differing amounts of time,
and you typically want to see
a probe at the begin of that
operation and at the end.
And then you might also want to
look at progress along the way,
because there might be
meaningful points where,
you know, if I'm processing 10 files,
then tell me when I've
gotten through each file.
At each of these probe points,
you want to think about what is
the interesting data that you would
want to record at that probe point
so that you could write scripts
with it to get log messages out,
or display that information in
a detailed view in Instruments
or graph it in the track view.
And then you want to tell the clients of
your probes what your probe points are.
So, the series of steps you'd go through
to add static probes to a process is
first write a provider description file,
then set up the build dependencies
by referencing the header file
for that in a source file.
We'll build it to
generate the header file,
and then add the probe
invocations to your code.
Amen.
So we're going to take a
look at an example here.
And you know,
Chad's paycheck really is depending on
how good he is with this Boggle game.
And I'd like to be able to
study this a little bit.
So I want to put a probe
on when he starts the word,
as he's going through,
hitting each letter,
and when he ends the word.
So I want to be able to see what the
timestamps on all these are and what
letters he's looked at along the way.
When we're recording data with probes,
in the DTrace language,
the probe argument types must be C data
types such as ints or shorts or longs,
char star, void star.
If you want to record
Cocoa object descriptions,
here's your opportunity to do that.
You would need to record
those object descriptions,
convert them into char stars by using
UTF-8 string and then casting them.
So our second step here is
to reference the header file.
So in our example here, we see that the
gamecontroller.m source file,
we're adding an import statement
to import bgbaffleprobes.h.
The Xcode build system,
if it sees a reference to a .h file,
it knows that, oh, okay,
I see a .d file of that same base name,
so I know how to generate the .h file.
So step three is to just build,
and that would generate
the header file for you,
and then code completion could be used.
If you're using a make-based project,
you can add a reference
to the header file.
So the next step here is to add a
rule to your make file using DTrace-h,
where the -h says generate a header
file using this source file name,
the .d file, and write it into this
-o output file name.
So I've described here the
way that this should work,
and it sometimes does work,
but it's slightly buggy with the Xcode
build system dependencies right now.
We need to fix that.
Chad will show you how to
work around that issue at
the moment when we do a demo.
Amen.
The header file that does get generated,
it's not really meant
to be human readable.
A large part of it is fairly obtuse.
The important parts of it is
that it takes your probe name,
such as start word,
and it generates macros for that.
So the form of the macro
is the provider name,
then an underscore,
and then the probe name with
everything converted to upper case.
So you don't want to use a probe name
that's like start dash word because
when you use that in source code,
of course,
that would look like a minus sign.
So it generates two macros,
baffle start word and
baffle start word enabled.
Now I can go into the source code and add
probe invocations as my final step here.
So, in the baffle method,
add visible letter of piece,
if I look at the array of
touched pieces that I've got,
if I don't have any yet,
if the count of that array is zero,
then I must be starting a word and
I can call the baffle start word probe.
Then after I've added a letter in,
any letter, I can go ahead and invoke the
baffle word progress method,
passing in the word up to that point.
And you can see we've done
the UTF-8 string conversion.
And finally,
when we are done and we commit the word,
we can put the baffle end word probe in.
Now you may be looking at this saying,
whoa, you said this was zero
cost if it's not in use.
And you can see we've
done the UTF-8 string,
that looks like it could be kind
of expensive if I'm not using it,
and that doing a count on an array,
I mean, what's up with this?
Well, that's where the isEnabled
probes come into action.
So, DTrace offers these
isEnabled probes to say,
only execute the code inside
this condition if the probe is
actually enabled at runtime.
So, we can surround the baffle start
word and baffle word progress.
So,
we can do that with a couple of snippets
of code with an if on that condition,
and that converts this just into
one quick test and branch at runtime
when the probe isn't enabled.
We don't need to do that with
baffle end word in this case because
there's no argument marshalling code,
and we just have a couple of no ops
in the code when it's not enabled.
So with that,
I'd like to bring Chad back up to add
some static probes into his example
so that I can watch his progress here.
Thank you, Dave.
Alright,
so this got a lot more exciting for me.
Okay, so I have my baffle word,
I'm sorry, my baffle Cocoa application
project up here in Xcode.
And we've created the file ahead
of time with the descriptor.
I'm just going to-- the
descriptions of the static probes,
I'm going to drag that
into my Xcode project here.
Add that to the current target.
So let's take a quick look at that.
That's the provider's baffle
and then the probes are defined.
It's a very simple syntax.
Now,
we talked about using code completion,
and there is a situation where
the header file doesn't exist
yet because it has to be built.
But if you want code completion
to work right out of the box,
you can come over here
to select the file,
the .d file,
and then say build and compile.
And that does actually generate
the header file for you.
So when you come down to the site
where we wanted to add these probes,
which is in the game controller,
If you import your header file,
then when we go down to the sites
where we want to add the code,
the code completion will work for you.
Because those macros can be a
little hard to type in by hand.
So let me show you that.
See, so you got all the code completion
after I hit the compile in the .d file.
Now, someone in the code was nice enough
to leave a comment behind saying
where I could insert this to find
out where the beginning of a word is.
So we'll use that.
Now this is just the code
that Dave showed you on the
slides for starting a word,
doing our test with the is enabled
and then the start word probe firing.
So skim down through the code.
Oh look, another comment.
Okay, this is the word progress.
Looks like somebody thought we
were thought ahead of time when
they were commenting the code.
This is the one we have the
UTF-8 string conversion on the
current string of that word.
And then inside the
commit word method here,
we're going to go to the word
has ended and add in our end.
Actually, that one I could
probably type in my hand.
Endword of my code completion.
Okay, now let's compile and build
that up and give it a run.
Save the file.
Good, so now we have an application
in there with static probes.
So we went from having no probes
at all to a fully instrumented
baffle game of death for me.
So now I can start Instruments.
I can go to a blank template.
We created an instrument ahead
of time to look at our static
probes called Word Progression.
So let's go in there and take a look at
that in the DTrace instrument builder.
So when you specify a static probe,
you come in here to the type of custom.
And you specify the provider.
Now your provider as
a DTrace static probe,
when you do say a DTrace-L or you
look at it here in Instruments,
it will say baffle,
which is the provider name,
plus it'll have the PID appended to it.
When you're specifying a
custom one inside Instruments,
you want to say baffle star.
You don't have to worry about
it maybe picking up probes and
other processes because if you
target a process in Instruments,
it'll do the filtering for you.
For this particular probe,
I record the probe that's
firing in Instruments,
and part of my action is to record
the timestamp of when it starts.
As the word progress continues,
we just simply put a record
to instruments action
here that says take arg0,
which is that string
that's being passed in.
We want to treat it as a string.
Now, you should note that when
treating something as a string,
let's say coming right in from Arc 0,
when we generate the DTrace code,
it actually does a copy and stir
and all of that's managed for you.
So you can say, Arc 0, it's a string.
Please send it out to Instruments.
And that's what we're doing here.
And then down here on the end word probe,
this is start word,
this is word progress,
and then this last one is end word.
So at the end word what we're
going to do is send the current
time minus the start time out to
Instruments and call out duration.
So let's send that,
or let's point that at our Baffle
Cocoa instrumented app here.
We'll hit record, go back to Baffle.
Now I'm going to need some
audience participation here.
I'll see how if I can do it.
[Transcript missing]
All right, I got busted.
Okay, going back to Instruments,
let me stop the trace.
You can see the call sequence.
You can see start word probe firing,
and then the word progression here,
and then how long it took me to
complete that word in milliseconds
because Dave really likes his accuracy.
One of the really neat things
about this is it looks like an
alternative for replacing logging,
and in some ways it is,
but there's not many logging features
that can actually give you the stack
trace of when that log message fired.
And that's something really
interesting that you can do
with DTrace static probes.
In addition, you might notice these
fields are left blank.
If you have a static probe and it's
used in several different functions,
you can actually specify the
function that you want that
specific probe invocation in.
And also in a specific library,
if all of a sudden your code is kind of
migrated to a few different libraries,
you can specify that
there in the descriptor.
But that's basically how you
would get up and running.
It's very simple.
The workaround that Dave was mentioning
is really just a quit exercise.
You can just go to the DTrax
code and then come back in.
And once you do that,
if you modify the .d file,
it'll generate the header,
and then the header will cause any
file that references it to recompile.
But we're going to work on that,
and that's the end of the demo,
and hope you guys have
a good rest of the week.
I'm out of here.
Dave, come back up.
Thank you.
Okay, very good.
So to recap one more time,
tell them what you're going to tell them,
tell them and then tell
them what you told them.
We added static probes by writing
a provider description file,
by adding a reference to the
header file for that descriptor
file in our source file.
We generated the header file by
doing a compile on the .d file,
and then we added the probe
invocations to our code.
Then, an additional step,
you might want to create a custom
instrument in Instruments to
use these static probes as well.
So in summary for our session,
hopefully this has given you some new
ideas about new ways to understand
the behavior of your application.
So this can span the range from
classical debugging and logging on
through to performance analysis.
We looked at how to trace
functions and methods,
both a specific function as
well as using wild carding.
For example,
on the set methods on properties,
you can look at accesses on
synthesized properties that way.
Pretty cool.
We looked at building custom
DTrace-based instruments and then
building our own static probes and
using those in our source code.
For more information,
you can contact Michael Jurowicz,
our evangelist.
He'll be on stage for Q&A in a moment.
You can look at the general
documentation for the WWDC,
also the DTrace documentation
at the Sun website.
And I noticed in the introduction
to DTrace session yesterday that
Steve Peters had a number of
additional reference materials
at the end of that session.
So perhaps you caught some
of these earlier sessions.
But if you didn't,
you'll be able to go back on
the videos and look at these.
Getting started with instruments,
debugging and profiling
your iPhone application,
using DTrace on MacOSX,
and then also performance tuning
your application with Shark,
which is a great CPU profiling
tool that can do very fine-grained
profiling of your application.